docs/docs/index.md, before:

# FreeTAKServer

![FTS Logo](FreeTakServerLogo.png)

FTS is a Python3 implementation of the TAK Server for devices like CivTAK , WinTAK and ITAK, it is cross-platform.
FreeTAKServer, as of Release 1.9, provides Situational Awareness and other capabilities such as:

-  Web administration 
- Federation Service (Connecting two or more FTS instances)
- Data Package upload and retrieval
- Image transfer and storage
- COT recording in a database
- Execution of common task list (using the ExCheck plugin for WinTAK; ATAK plugin only available to users with takmaps.com access)
- SSL Encryption
- Command Line Interface for start and stop services
- REST API for creation of information such as emergency, Enemy units and so on
- Android Edition
- WebMap
- Pushing of information (video streams, certifications, ...) to clients

The following features are planned for the 2.0 family:
- microservices
- Data Sync / mission planning

Check out our roadmap [@FreeTakServer#25](https://github.com/FreeTAKTeam/FreeTakServer/issues/25) to see what is planned

## Stup Up and take my money!
The easy way to install FTS is to use our signature [ZeroTouch Installer](https://freetakteam.github.io/FreeTAKServer-User-Docs/Installation/Ansible/ZeroTouchInstall/)  

## Community 
This project is currently in *Early Production Stage*.

If you have any issues don't hesitate to [bring it up](https://github.com/Tapawingo/FreeTakServer/issues), as FreeTAKServer is in continuous development. To stay upd to date you can subscribe to the [pip RSS](https://pypi.org/rss/project/freetakserver/releases.xml).

### Donate Back
the FTS team is working  daily on the development of a open and free solution. We plan to do more that simply replicate the functionalities of the legacy TAK server, our road map [@FreeTakServer#25](https://github.com/FreeTAKTeam/FreeTakServer/issues/25) to see what is planned, includes lot of cool ideas.

We are doing it for free because we believe that donating personal time to a cause it's an endeavour that is worthy per-se, however, part-time, we are also spending our own money to:

- Maintain a Public server and a test server
- Investing in different technologies for R&D

if you feel that FTS is useful to you and you can donate in those challenging times please consider to send you contribution here:
[DONATE](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=brothercorvo%40gmail.com&item_name=FreeTAKServer+R%26D&currency_code=CAD&source=url)
![FreeTAKTeamqrcode](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60719165/162584843-b7121ff7-40d9-4499-b274-a3ff87c3e587.png)

You can also support the project by buying one of our [T-Shirts](http://tee.pub/lic/elARpZYCmaw)

NOTE:
Not a big fan of Paypal, but that is the easier way I found for an initial attempt. 
We may go to some more ethical system in the future.

### Public instance
We support a [public instance](https://www.reddit.com/r/ATAK/wiki/index/freetakserver) of FTS.
- download the configuration [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1IK1LfPN13EWikHaMyOuDDwIerNGz-Wli)
- use the Import manager in ATAK to import the configuration

### FreeTAKTeam YouTube channel
We have created the [FreeTAKTeam YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCJJOterycd1UuulmQGEV8Iw) where we are posting tutorials, use case and more.  

### Tell us what you think!
To discuss with the developer team you may use:
- The [subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/ATAK/)
- The [public ATAK Discord Server](https://discordapp.com/invite/XEPyhHA)

Commit message:

Minor spelling and capitalization edits.
Also updated takmaps.com to tak.gov and added some missing punctuation.

docs/docs/index.md, after:

# FreeTAKServer

![FTS Logo](FreeTakServerLogo.png)

FTS is a Python3 implementation of the TAK Server for devices like ATAK-CIV , WinTAK and iTAK. It is cross-platform.
FreeTAKServer, as of Release 1.9, provides Situational Awareness and other capabilities such as:

- Web administration 
- Federation Service (Connecting two or more FTS instances)
- Data Package upload and retrieval
- Image transfer and storage
- COT recording in a database
- Execution of common task list (using the ExCheck plugin for WinTAK; ATAK plugin only available to users with tak.gov access)
- SSL Encryption
- Command Line Interface for start and stop services
- REST API for creation of information such as emergency, Enemy units and so on
- Android Edition
- WebMap
- Pushing of information (video streams, certifications, ...) to clients

The following features are planned for the 2.0 family:
- Microservices
- Data Sync / Mission Planning

Check out our roadmap [@FreeTakServer#25](https://github.com/FreeTAKTeam/FreeTakServer/issues/25) to see what is planned.

## Stup Up and take my money!
The easy way to install FTS is to use our signature [ZeroTouch Installer](https://freetakteam.github.io/FreeTAKServer-User-Docs/Installation/Ansible/ZeroTouchInstall/)  

## Community 
This project is currently in *Early Production Stage*.

If you have any issues, don't hesitate to [bring it up](https://github.com/Tapawingo/FreeTakServer/issues), as FreeTAKServer is in continuous development. To stay up-to-date you can subscribe to the [pip RSS](https://pypi.org/rss/project/freetakserver/releases.xml).

### Donate Back
The FTS team is working  daily on the development of an open and free solution.  We plan to do more than simply replicate the functionalities of the legacy TAK server.  Check out our road map [@FreeTakServer#25](https://github.com/FreeTAKTeam/FreeTakServer/issues/25) to see what is planned.  It includes a lot of cool ideas.

We are doing it for free, because we believe that donating personal time to a cause is an endeavour that is worthy per-se, however, part-time, we are also spending our own money to:

- Maintain a public server and a test server
- Investing in different technologies for R&D

If you feel that FTS is useful to you and you can donate in those challenging times, please consider sending a contribution here:
[DONATE](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=brothercorvo%40gmail.com&item_name=FreeTAKServer+R%26D&currency_code=CAD&source=url)
![FreeTAKTeamqrcode](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60719165/162584843-b7121ff7-40d9-4499-b274-a3ff87c3e587.png)

You can also support the project by buying one of our [T-Shirts](http://tee.pub/lic/elARpZYCmaw)

NOTE:
We are not a big fans of Paypal, but it is the easiest and most accessible way we have found for enabling some form of funding. 
We hope to implement a more ethical system in the future.

### Public Instance
We support a [public instance](https://www.reddit.com/r/ATAK/wiki/index/freetakserver) of FTS.
- download the configuration [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1IK1LfPN13EWikHaMyOuDDwIerNGz-Wli)
- use the Import Manager in ATAK to import the configuration.

### FreeTAKTeam YouTube channel
We have created the [FreeTAKTeam YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCJJOterycd1UuulmQGEV8Iw) where we are posting tutorials, use case, and more.  

### Tell us what you think!
To discuss with the developer team you may use:
- The [subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/ATAK/)
- The [public ATAK Discord Server](https://discordapp.com/invite/XEPyhHA)
