docs/docs/Installation/Docker/overview.md, before:

# Install

The official Docker image for FreeTAKServer.

## Usage
When using this docker container we suggested that you use the `--restart unless-stopped` flag as shown in the examples.  This will enure that the service automatically starts with the host and will restart if it encounters an error and crashes.  The port mappings in the examples are required to make the service accessable to hosts.  All environment variables are optional.  All data is stored in a single directory for ease of persistent data between container versions.

```bash
docker volume create fts_data

docker run -d -p 8080:8080/tcp -p 8087:8087/tcp -e FTS_CONNECTION_MESSAGE="Server Connection Message" -e FTS_COT_TO_DB="True" -v fts_data:/data --name fts --restart unless-stopped freetakteam/freetakserver:1.1.2
```

Alternatively, you can use the example `docker-compose.yml` [available here](https://github.com/FreeTAKTeam/FreeTAKServer-Docker/blob/main/docker-compose.yml) by copying `docker-compose.yml` into a directory and then doing `docker-compose up` or `docker-compose up -d` to bring the container up, and in the background, respectively. The `docker-compose.yml` uses a bind mount to `./data`.

### Ports
The docker image runs the ports on the same defaults as FreeTAKServer.  You can use the `-e` flag to map these ports to different ports or to run multiple FreeTAKServer's concurrently on the same host.

### Environment Variables
All environment variables will apply to FTS. However, these are some additional ones specific to this docker image.
```
APPPORT: Allows hosting FTS UI from a different port, if needed
APIIP: Allows the FTS UI to specify a different API port, if needed. Will use the `IP` environment variable, if not specified
APIPORT: Allows the FTS UI to specify a different API port, if needed
APIPROTOCOL: Allows the FTS UI to specify a different API protocol, if needed
WEBMAPIP: Allows the FTS UI to specify a different webmap IP, if needed
WEBMAPPORT: Allows the FTS UI to specify a different webmap port, if needed
WEBMAPPROTOCOL: Allows the FTS UI to specify a different webmap protocol, if needed
```

### Storage
All data in this container is stored in `/data`.  This directory will need to be stored to a volume if you wish to persist data between updates.

If you use a storage volume you may need to run `docker inspect fts_data` to find where it saved the data.  It will return something similar to this:
```
root@fts:/home/ubuntu# docker inspect fts_data
[
    {
        "CreatedAt": "2020-11-12T03:32:53Z",
        "Driver": "local",
        "Labels": {},
        "Mountpoint": "/var/lib/docker/volumes/fts_data/_data",
        "Name": "fts_data",
        "Options": {},
        "Scope": "local"
    }
]
```

The `docker-compose.yml` example utilizes a bind mount to `./data` in the same directory.

## Additional Architectures
Currently the container is being cross compiled for `linux/amd64`,  `linux/arm64` and `linux/arm/v7`.  If additional processor architectures are needed please open an issue and request a new one.

## Docker Hub Page
[https://hub.docker.com/r/freetakteam/freetakserver](https://hub.docker.com/r/freetakteam/freetakserver)

Commit message:

Add old documentation warning to the container docs to warn off those who think it's current

docs/docs/Installation/Docker/overview.md, after:

# Warning! Old Documentation Ahead!

The documentation below is for the **OLD** FTS container implementation and is not correct.

If you are following these instructions, you will probably not get the result you want.

New documentation is in the works, and will be released ASAP.

---

# Install

The official Docker image for FreeTAKServer.

## Usage
When using this docker container we suggested that you use the `--restart unless-stopped` flag as shown in the examples.  This will enure that the service automatically starts with the host and will restart if it encounters an error and crashes.  The port mappings in the examples are required to make the service accessable to hosts.  All environment variables are optional.  All data is stored in a single directory for ease of persistent data between container versions.

```bash
docker volume create fts_data

docker run -d -p 8080:8080/tcp -p 8087:8087/tcp -e FTS_CONNECTION_MESSAGE="Server Connection Message" -e FTS_COT_TO_DB="True" -v fts_data:/data --name fts --restart unless-stopped freetakteam/freetakserver:1.1.2
```

Alternatively, you can use the example `docker-compose.yml` [available here](https://github.com/FreeTAKTeam/FreeTAKServer-Docker/blob/main/docker-compose.yml) by copying `docker-compose.yml` into a directory and then doing `docker-compose up` or `docker-compose up -d` to bring the container up, and in the background, respectively. The `docker-compose.yml` uses a bind mount to `./data`.

### Ports
The docker image runs the ports on the same defaults as FreeTAKServer.  You can use the `-e` flag to map these ports to different ports or to run multiple FreeTAKServer's concurrently on the same host.

### Environment Variables
All environment variables will apply to FTS. However, these are some additional ones specific to this docker image.
```
APPPORT: Allows hosting FTS UI from a different port, if needed
APIIP: Allows the FTS UI to specify a different API port, if needed. Will use the `IP` environment variable, if not specified
APIPORT: Allows the FTS UI to specify a different API port, if needed
APIPROTOCOL: Allows the FTS UI to specify a different API protocol, if needed
WEBMAPIP: Allows the FTS UI to specify a different webmap IP, if needed
WEBMAPPORT: Allows the FTS UI to specify a different webmap port, if needed
WEBMAPPROTOCOL: Allows the FTS UI to specify a different webmap protocol, if needed
```

### Storage
All data in this container is stored in `/data`.  This directory will need to be stored to a volume if you wish to persist data between updates.

If you use a storage volume you may need to run `docker inspect fts_data` to find where it saved the data.  It will return something similar to this:
```
root@fts:/home/ubuntu# docker inspect fts_data
[
    {
        "CreatedAt": "2020-11-12T03:32:53Z",
        "Driver": "local",
        "Labels": {},
        "Mountpoint": "/var/lib/docker/volumes/fts_data/_data",
        "Name": "fts_data",
        "Options": {},
        "Scope": "local"
    }
]
```

The `docker-compose.yml` example utilizes a bind mount to `./data` in the same directory.

## Additional Architectures
Currently the container is being cross compiled for `linux/amd64`,  `linux/arm64` and `linux/arm/v7`.  If additional processor architectures are needed please open an issue and request a new one.

## Docker Hub Page
[https://hub.docker.com/r/freetakteam/freetakserver](https://hub.docker.com/r/freetakteam/freetakserver)
