docs/docs/Installation/Linux/Service.md, before:

Running FreeTAKServer as a service on your Linux server can be achieved in multiple ways.

## Cron
Cron or Crontab is a basic scheduler that ships with most linux distributions.

We can use this to get a very basic service running with minimal effort.

### Edit Crontab
```bash
sudo crontab -e
```

Add this line to the bottom of the file

```
@reboot nohup sudo python3 -m FreeTAKServer.controllers.services.FTS &
```

You will need to add any start parameters to the crontab file such as `-DataPackageIP`.

## Systemd

### Introduction
Systemd is nearly unavoidable. It has permiated so many aspects of the Linux ecosystem that it's necessary for any Linux admin to know at least the basics of how it works. 
One of the major selling points of systemd is the ease of writing service files. 
They aren't scripts. Instead, they're basic configuration files. While they can grow to be complex, they are usually very simple.

>**Note**
> You will need create two seperate systemd files, if you're using Web UI
> - fts.service
> - fts-ui.service


### Create The File
Systemd services exist at 
```/etc/systemd/system.```
or
```
/usr/lib/systemd/system/
```
Any .service file that you create in that directory can be run as a service, if you construct it properly. 
Create a file that you would like with the .service extension. 
In our case, to create a file as /etc/systemd/system/FreeTAKServer.service with the following content:
(modify the parameters as needed)
copy and past in the console

```
sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/fts.service >/dev/null << EOF
[Unit]
Description=FreeTAK Server service
After=network.target
StartLimitIntervalSec=0

[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
RestartSec=1
ExecStart=/usr/bin/python3 -m FreeTAKServer.controllers.services.FTS

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

And reload systemd so it will load new unit file:
```
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```

### Start the fts.service
```
sudo systemctl start fts.service
```

### Get the Status of the FTS.service
```
sudo systemctl status fts.service
```

### Stop the FTS.service
```
sudo systemctl stop fts.service
```

### Start the FTS.service with the system
```
sudo systemctl enable fts.service
```

## UI Service
similarly the UI service can be created with 
```
sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/fts-ui.service >/dev/null << EOF
[Unit]
Description=FreeTAKServer UI service
After=network.target
StartLimitIntervalSec=0

[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
RestartSec=1
ExecStart=/usr/bin/python3 -/usr/local/lib/python3.8/dist-packages/FreeTAKServer-UI/run.py

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```


started 

see also[ZeroTouchInstall Services section](https://freetakteam.github.io/FreeTAKServer-User-Docs/Installation/Ansible/ZeroTouchInstall/) to see the complete list of the services ccreated by the installer

Commit message:

added background and fixed typos

docs/docs/Installation/Linux/Service.md, after:

Running FreeTAKServer as a service on your Linux server can be achieved in multiple ways.

## Cron
Cron or Crontab is a basic scheduler that ships with most linux distributions.

We can use this to get a very basic service running with minimal effort.

### Edit Crontab
```bash
sudo crontab -e
```

Add this line to the bottom of the file

```
@reboot nohup sudo python3 -m FreeTAKServer.controllers.services.FTS &
```

You will need to add any start parameters to the crontab file such as `-DataPackageIP`.

## Systemd

### Introduction
Systemd is nearly unavoidable. It has permiated so many aspects of the Linux ecosystem that it's necessary for any Linux admin to know at least the basics of how it works. 
One of the major selling points of systemd is the ease of writing service files. 
They aren't scripts. Instead, they're basic configuration files. While they can grow to be complex, they are usually very simple.
### background
The main directive is ExecStart, which specifies the command that should be run when the service is started. The command is 
```
/usr/bin/python3 -m /usr/local/lib/python3.11/dist-packages/FreeTAKServer-UI/run.py. 
```
Here's what each part of the command does:
/usr/bin/python3: This specifies the Python interpreter that should be used to run the code.
-m: This option tells Python to run a module as a script.
/usr/local/lib/python3.11/dist-packages/FreeTAKServer-UI/run.py: This is the path to the Python module that should be run as a script.
So when the service is started, the Python interpreter will run the run.py module located in the /usr/local/lib/python3.8/dist-packages/FreeTAKServer-UI/ directory.

This code above is  running  FreeTAKServer-UI, which is a user interface for  FreeTAKServer. When the Systemd service is started, it will start the FreeTAKServer-UI interface, allowing users to interact with the FreeTAKServer software through a web browser.

>**Note**
> You will need create two seperate systemd files, if you're using Web UI
> - fts.service
> - fts-ui.service


### Create The File
Systemd services exist at 
```/etc/systemd/system.```
or
```
/usr/lib/systemd/system/
```
Any .service file that you create in that directory can be run as a service, if you construct it properly. 
Create a file that you would like with the .service extension. 
In our case, to create a file as /etc/systemd/system/FreeTAKServer.service with the following content:
(modify the parameters as needed)
copy and past in the console

```
sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/fts.service >/dev/null << EOF
[Unit]
Description=FreeTAK Server service
After=network.target
StartLimitIntervalSec=0

[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
RestartSec=1
ExecStart=/usr/bin/python3 -m FreeTAKServer.controllers.services.FTS

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

And reload systemd so it will load new unit file:
```
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```

### Start the fts.service
```
sudo systemctl start fts.service
```

### Get the Status of the FTS.service
```
sudo systemctl status fts.service
```

### Stop the FTS.service
```
sudo systemctl stop fts.service
```

### Start the FTS.service with the system
```
sudo systemctl enable fts.service
```

## UI Service
similarly the UI service can be created with 
```
sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/fts-ui.service >/dev/null << EOF
[Unit]
Description=FreeTAKServer UI service
After=network.target
StartLimitIntervalSec=0

[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
RestartSec=1
ExecStart=/usr/bin/python3 -m /usr/local/lib/python3.11/dist-packages/FreeTAKServer-UI/run.py

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```


started 

see also[ZeroTouchInstall Services section](https://freetakteam.github.io/FreeTAKServer-User-Docs/Installation/Ansible/ZeroTouchInstall/) to see the complete list of the services created by the installer
